Add docs for collecting CRs (#26074)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/infrastructure/containers/configuration.md

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Collect custom resources and CustomResourceDefinitions

The [Orchestrator Explorer][3] collects CustomResourceDefinitions by default. These definitions appear in Datadog without any user configuration required.

To collect custom resources, you need to configure both the Datadog Agent and set up indexing.

1. Configure the Datadog Agent:

   {{< tabs >}}
   {{% tab "Helm Chart" %}}

   Add the following configuration to `datadog-values.yaml`:

   ```
   orchestratorExplorer:
       customResources:
           - <CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>
   ```

   Each `<CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>` must use the format `group/version/kind`.

   {{% /tab %}}
   {{% tab "Datadog Operator" %}}

>    The Datadog Operator needs permission to collect custom resources. Install the Operator with an option that grants this permission:

Reviewer: the operator isn't doing the collecting, it's granting permissions to the (Cluster) Agent to do the collecting

```suggestion
   The Datadog Operator needs permission to allow the Agent to collect custom resources. Install the Operator with an option that grants this permission:
```

   ```
   helm install datadog-operator datadog/datadog-operator --set clusterRole.allowReadAllResources=true
   ```

>    Then, add the following configuration to `datadog-agent.yaml`:

Reviewer: I would suggest calling this something else, so it's not confused with the Helm values file referenced above. (For added clarity, we can add a link to examples, like https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-operator/tree/main/examples/datadogagent) 

```suggestion
   Then, add the following configuration to your `DatadogAgent` manifest, `datadogagent.yaml`:
```

Reviewer 2: I should note that it's called `datadog-agent.yaml` everywhere else in the docs, and the Helm values file is consistently called `datadog-values.yaml`. also, because of the tabbed structure, users would only see either the Operator or Helm tab at a time.

Reviewer: Right, that's why I suggest to call it something different - it's not a Helm file in this case, but a Kubernetes manifest

Reviewer 2: Ah gotcha, I'll change it!

Reviewer: Great, thank you

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ### Collect custom resources and custom resource definitions
> 
> The [Orchestrator Explorer][3] collects custom resource definitions by default. These definitions appear in Datadog without any user configuration required.
> 
> To collect custom resources, you need to configure both the Datadog Agent and set up indexing.
> 
> 1. Open [Orchestrator Explorer][3].
> 1. On the left panel, under **Select Resources**, select **Kubernetes > Custom Resources > Resource Definitions**.
> 1. Locate the custom resource definition that corresponds to the resource you want to collect. Click on the version under the **Versions** column.
> 1. A dialog opens with instructions:
>    - **Agent Setup**
>    {{< tabs >}}
>    {{% tab "Helm Chart" %}}
> 
>    Add the following configuration to `datadog-values.yaml`:
> 
>    ```
>    orchestratorExplorer:
>        customResources:
>            - <CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>
>    ```
> 
>    Each `<CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>` must use the format `group/version/kind`.
> 
>    {{% /tab %}}
>    {{% tab "Datadog Operator" %}}
> 
>    The Operator needs permission to collect custom resources. When you [install the Datadog Operator][4], add `--set clusterRole.allowReadAllResources=true` when you run `helm install`.
> 
>    For example:
>    ```
>    helm install datadog-operator datadog/datadog-operator --set clusterRole.allowReadAllResources=true
>    ```
> 
>    Then, add the following configuration to `datadog-agent.yaml`:
> 
>    ```
>    features:
>        orchestratorExplorer:
>            customResources:
>                - <CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>
>    ```
> 
>    Each `<CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>` must use the format `group/version/kind`.
> 
>    {{% /tab %}}
>    {{< /tabs >}}
>    - **Indexing Configuration**
> 
>       Select the fields you want to index.
> 1. Select **Enable Indexing**
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Collect custom resources and CustomResourceDefinitions

The [Orchestrator Explorer][3] collects CustomResourceDefinitions by default. These definitions appear in Datadog without any user configuration required.

To collect custom resources, you need to configure both the Datadog Agent and set up indexing.

1. Configure the Datadog Agent
{{< tabs >}}
   {{% tab "Helm Chart" %}}

   Add a list of custom resources to collect to `datadog-values.yaml`:

   ```
   orchestratorExplorer:
       customResources:
           - <CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>
   ```

   Each `<CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>` must use the format `group/version/kind`.

   {{% /tab %}}
   {{% tab "Datadog Operator" %}}

   The Datadog Operator needs permission to allow the Datadog Agent to collect custom resources. Install the Operator with an option that grants this permission:

   ```
   helm install datadog-operator datadog/datadog-operator --set clusterRole.allowReadAllResources=true
   ```

   Then, add a list of custom resources to collect to your `DatadogAgent` manifest:

   ```
   features:
       orchestratorExplorer:
           customResources:
               - <CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>
   ```

   Each `<CUSTOM_RESOURCE_NAME>` must use the format `group/version/kind`.

   {{% /tab %}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

1. In your Datadog account, open [Orchestrator Explorer][3].
1. On the left panel, under **Select Resources**, select **Kubernetes > Custom Resources > Resource Definitions**.
1. Locate the custom resource definition that corresponds to the resource you want to collect. Click on the version under the **Versions** column.
1. Under **Indexing Configuration**, select the fields you want to index.
1. Select **Enable Indexing**

```
